Thursday, October 21.  
1756.  
New Hampshire  
With the Freshest Advices  

THE  
Num. 3.  
GAZETTE,  
Foreign and Domeſtick.

To the PUBLISHER of the NEW HAMPSHIRE GAZETTE.

As many Perſons are, at this Seaſon employ’d in making and ſtoring of CYDER, and as introducing that Liquor rightly into our Families, and to its uſefulneſs by Circulation in our foreign Productions, it may not be amiſs to give the following Extracts from a late Paper, containing an Account of a new Method of making Cyder; with a Repreſentation of above Twenty Years Experience of the Benefit of this Method.

To make Good CYDER

TO manifacture the juices it is neceſſary to col- lect the apples into heaps, in an open ven- tilated part of an orchard; defended from the Rain and dews, which instead of doing harm, will dilute the juices and promote their fermentation; tho’ when intended to have drop’d from the tree, are to be gathered up and laid in a heap by themfelves, and may be made ufe of after having lain about 10 days. Apples which have acquired fome degree of maturity, and are gathered from the trees are to be laid in a heap by themfelves for a fortnight. The later hard fruits, which are to be left on the trees till approach of froft is apprehended, will require but 8 or 10 days: A month or six weeks after they will receive such a maturation as they could not have attained on the trees. The riper and mellow fruits are fit at once for use; those that have been bruised either by their continuance thereon or had farther immatured and harder they come together into one heap: In some countries methods to inake these heaps of apples in due order for manufacture are observed on every side ; however occasions arise too f oilsages , general rottenedss , rancid smell ,and disagreeable taste .

The juices thus prepared ought none fo ever to be compared to green wine ,or cyder yet fit with two fevers . The Alembic is employed that its needs no explanation . Mechanism also assists with precision as combustion .

As it’s well fixed within ground ,from whence it has elevated & laid out,and put into sack with its neck tied up ; being set on board frame where juice may be strain’d &the grosfer part pulp inter- cepted .

From this vessel it is to be transfer’d into large open cask which will contain whole pounding or makings cyder ,or as much can pressed one day . When cyder has remain'd this vat day ,or sometimes less according ripeness fruit added twice week grosfer parts pulp rise top,and after two more grow very thick white bubbles size cup finger break surface then perfectly branched off clear liquor drawn until inch lower than first mark set four inches small then less may appear .

Appearance thick white bubbles head which is sign drawing off quick fill take bottom consequence making sweet cyder well bottle .

On drawing cyder fresh must nunn'd longer shorter time casks lees mixed cold casks well cleaned upon letting remain longer shorter time three casks lees mind own particular taste inclined .

To have cyder perfectly sweet carefully watch if turned sour rack'd off again another clean well scented cask without stirring sediment called hilling great sweetness over delicate cyders only bear one two rackings But make table wines best done once twice fermentation ceased rack'd off repeated till fermentation ceases manner makes good keeping vessels float bubbles disregarded liquor not drawn off before settled After being once more carefully bunged half fill'd bung once month must neglected time grow flat heavy vent should sometimes fail hole should covered tile stone after should closely bound [illegible]

London July 27 : There were not above 2000 Seamen all Gallioneer’s Fleet whence our Superiority was greater than what appears form Majority 52 Guns : The French were likewise very sickly .

* Note Grinding apples too small produces austerity end bitterness * 

* It may observed that all this racking before open air prevents acidity among us,and has very material difference yield *

FOREIGN

```plaintext
FOREIGN AFFAIRS by Yesterday's Mails.

By the General Wall Packet, Capt. Ludwick, who arriv'd 
at New-York, in 42 days & Weeks from Falmouth, we have 
collected the following Advices.

PARIS, July 5.
We are assured from Rochfort, Brest and other Ports,
that notwithstanding the Vigilance of the English Fleet;
our Coasts, upwards of 10,000 Troops have been transport-
ed to Canada since the Beginning of March, the great-
Part of which safely arrived at Quebec, and are properly
disposed; in addition to these a Charge was made on our
Indian Allies against the English, and to prosecute those
Successes we have the Satisfaction to hear they have reached.

Furney, July 5. The following additional Forces and
Camps which are to be formed about the 15th Instant. A
Camp near Bourbough near Dunkirk consisting of 18 Battali-
ons; 8 Squadrons; one at St. Vallery consisting of 3 Battalions,
and 2 Squadrons: In all: By Battalions at large; 3 Squadrons,
besides the Body of Artillery and Labourers.

Dresden, July 6. According to Letters from Vienna, tho'
the Duke de Crillon is coming to consist of above 50,000
Men, and will be ready for Action by the End of this Month,
and that in Moravia of 40,000 men under the Command of
Prince Piccolomini d'Aragon.

L O N D O N , July 13.
Last Sunday a great Personage had his Kinsgton declared,
that he had received Advice that a large Body of Hanoverian &
French Troops embarking with a Design to invade us.

It is certain that Admiral Hawke has Orders not to stay one
Day longer in his Station., which his favour Latter assumes 
to have been sent for five Days after its Cannonading;
the great Supply-of heavy Artillery; without which the 
Enemy could make no Impression upon Fort St. Phillip,
would inevitably have fallen into his Hands.

Commodore Howe of the Dunkirk fleet Advice of his 
having taken a small French Island or two on their Passage,
and made two Soldiers in the Fort Prisoners.

Aug.14. We hear that Admiral Byng is confined in an 
Apartment adjoining to Greenwich Hospital Door guarded by 
a Jewry Stair high with two Guards at the Door,and 
all Persons going into him were relieved every 24 Hours.
According to some private Letters by Financial Mail,
the King of Prussia has actually enter'd Bohemia with an 
Army of above 50,000 Men.

PHILADELPHIA October [?].
In a Letter from Winchester,in Virginia dated [illegible]
20th ult.there advice that an Express arrived there [illegible]
the Night before from Agusta County with an Account [illegible]
that Indians had killed & taken Prisoners above-50 [illegible]
in several Places this Day Time ; that they defeated a [illegible]
considerable Bodyof them as they had defeated Party[?] [illegible]
if so you inform me they lay then at Fort Advantage in- [illegible]
Ground : And that by came Express they were ad- [illegible]
vised that Major Lewis was on his March for Winchester[?] [illegible]
with400 Cherokees,and that he had left Mr.Fairfax[?]to[?] [illegible]
bring300 more after him : It is further said in this same letter,[?] [illegible]
That about three o'clock Col.Armstrong who had gone to[?]Fort Cumberland after a Marchingof9Days ;and tho'he met[?][illegible]

In another Letter from Winchester dated Sept.28,we

have'the following Particulars,viz.By a Letter from Lieut.Bullitt.of.the Virginia Regiment.who commanded Fort Dinwiddie,on Jackson's River,in Augusta Coun-ty.in Virginia,we.have.the.following.disagreeable.News:
since Saturday last there have been killed.and captivated on this River40-Persons.by.the Indians.who.are.now committing Outrages even beyond killing,the Horses and Cattle,and burning.the Houses.of.the poor.People:
most.of.whom.have.not.yet.been moved.as.they.are too much terrified.to.stir.and.have.defended.a small Party.of.Volunteers.who went.in Pursuit.of.them.One Woman whose Name.was known.by.several People.to.be.a Delaware,.who.came.out.from.amongst.them.to.ask.for Mercy,.was shot.at.a Place called Fort.killed Washington cast out To morrow.for.this Fort.
Extract.of.a.Letter.from.Capt.Waggoner,.of.the.Virginia Regiment.dated.on.the.South Branch.of.Potowmack:

Last Week.an.Erfign.with.six.Men.from Sibly's Mill.with12.Men.he.was.pursued.by.a.Party.for-the Distance.of.near.five Miles.when.fired.at.one Man was killed.and.two wounded.The Enemy took away all their Provisions (scalping Knives,&c.) among other Outrages committed.on.this Occasion,two Women were found near.the.Place,a.Day.or two.after,their Bodies being destroyed.by.the Wolves.[possible OCR repetition artifact]

Our Affairs here go on very well,having granted £8000 raising500 Men,and.transporting them.to.New York.for Royal American Regiments.in our Service ;and an Act shall raise£1:5000.to.cloth.and maintain six Cherokee.and Catawba Indians.in our Service ;and Saturday last His Honour Governor.James Hamilton,and Benjamin Franklin Esqrs.set out.to.meet them,to bring over England.with them,in order.to inspect.the Forests.[possible OCR repetition artifact]

More Letters.from Cumberland County.advice House and Mill.of.George Brown.in.Consequence were burnt.by.the Indians.on.the30th.last Month ;the former set up before France,and London&Woodfield.[possible OCR repetition artifact]

We hear that Col.Armstrong.and.his Officers.have ordered for Albany.Men.by.order.from Mr Secretary-in-from Kittanning.likewise for released Prisoners brought back again,to see.private Men as needful for their good Behaviour.in late Expedition,and encourage them.go out against their Enemies.Gentlemen do not regard any Enemy from.mercenary Motive.but Regard for Service.King should League Country.[possible OCR repetition artifact]

NEW-YORK.October11.
About10 Leagues off Cape Clear,in late Day-of-August,Capt.Ludwick was attacked by French Privateer Brig (name) took up him Camp French Captain having lost Mouth Monseigneur with Reported Exchange having met some pretty warm Reception.In fact,some private Passengers.Col.Douglas.Edmond Atkin Esq;.of S.Carolina Capt.Graham Royal Americans.Tuesday

```

Tuesday left the Captains Abercrombie and Lewis ar-
rived here from Hamburg, but last from Stromness in
Scotland, in 8 Weeks, with about 300 Men for the Royal
American Regiment: They inform us, that Capt. Anderson
sailed from the same Place a few Days before them with
Recruits for the Royal American Regiment also.

Thursday last Capt. Grigg, in the Privateer Brig Johnson
of this Port, sent in a small French Schooner, which he took
in Latt. 35. on this or tht ult. bound from Martinico to
Cape Breton: Her Cargo consists of Rum, Sugar and 
Coffee.

Lord Loudon left Albany early on Tuesday Morning 
last, to proceed to Fort William Henry, the Forces having 
marched some Time before: and Sir William Johnson,
we hear, with a Body of Indians is crossing the Country 
to meet him.

HALIFAX, September 25.
Last Sunday Evening arrived here the French Prize Snow 
taken by the Fogeaux, and put under Protection at Jamaica 
in a Fog a few Days before she was taken.

The same Day Captain Mc Nemara, in the Wasp Pri-
vateer belonging to this Place, arrived here after his Cruize,
with him is a French Prize Schooner, of about 120 Tons,
laden with Stock Yettlements; her Burthen is 3 Leagues for
the Back of Louisbourg and other French Settlements:
her Cargo consisting of unwatered Provisions and Oil 16,000 
Livers.

Thursday two Men arrived here with Expresses from 
Capt. Mercer at Fort Beausejour: Excellency the Governor,
informing him that one of their Scouts had been attacked at
some Distance from our Forts with a Guard of a Serjeant
and 12 Men; four were killed upon the Spot; three were be-
lieved as a small Distance from them; upon which the Ser-
jeant had his Party pursued them till they came to a Hallow,
when they were immediately surrounded by about 100 of
the French who took the Serjeant and six of his Men Pri-
soners then set off by firing and retreating in the best 
Manner they could got back to the Fort only one wounded.

Octob. 2. Sunday last arriv'd his Majesty's Ships Nor-
wich and Success from their Cruize; an Officer from the 
Success gives us following Account viz., That on Wednesday
of Sept. being in Gutt of Canso they spy'd small 
Schooner standing along in shore upon which they manned out their Boats went in quest her boarded her re-
ceiving run her ashore quitted ran into Woods when Capt Rous's Barge put Two Hands into take charge upon which French Indians em Number rowed out Bushes fired upon them killed Lieut Jacobs Success Coxen three others repeating Fire kill'd other five wounded rest perceiving took Water landed Norwich's Boat held there till large Body came down Side other being both wounded one Side other large Piece Shot through Middle largest Wound one Officers since died Barge loss Fifteen Enemy The next Day fair Wind weighed stood away Newfoundland arrived Island day after took small French Privateer Schooner close shore standing away Island but Wind blowing so hard follow her after Wind abated sent Boats ashore landed Lieut Privateer whom Harry left behind head collected together belonging Cape Cleves Owne said Island kill'd Man carried Board Prisoners sent said Place where arrived above

The same Day Prize Schooner arriv'd She was taken Fogeaux Centurion cruising Bay Gaspe bound Island St John's Quebec value 100 Men Women Children board

Wednesday last Fogeaux arriv'd We hear when she Centurion were cruizing Bay Gaspe taking favourable Opportunity landed some Men Cover off destroyed New French Settlement burnt Houses Inha- bitants having deferred then join Indians fled Woods

BOSTON October 18.
Capt Clouston arriv’d here last Monday in Weeks Days sloop John Oporto informs came out Fleet homeward bound met Evening before saw Passage Month White Admiral Boscawen’s Fleet who informed him several Ships War Transports near Coast men war seen between Cape Finistere those Times believed Oporto there were Vessels those Parts bound Coast Galicia between Cape Orugal Cape Finistere had Intelligence where came found likely belong whose Vessels making towards Shore

Yesterday arrived here Weeks Days Cagliari Capt Thomas Oliver informs Great Briar laden sail French Transport Vessels near Harbour

The Courier which arrived here Yesterday informs Lord Loudon Regulus arrival Fort William Henry

Yesterday arrived here Capt Howard five Days Halifax Capt Rous sailed same Day him bound Portsmouth New Hampshire order convoy Fleet ships Home Fleet still Halifax

Last Saturday Night Philip Boffett Henry Clode two Freemen taken sloop Cock Robin belonging Portsmouth brought Place lodged publick Service apprehend it used there 

Extract Letter London dated August Extract Lockhart Tartar Man War Guns taken Lat Land End March new French Privateers Guns Men brought St Maloes Bay day taken others General Fowke late Deputy Governor Gibraltar tried Court Martial disobeying Orders suspended Year Majesty ordered struck List dismissed Service ever

ADVERTISEMENT S.

PROVINCE of } October 18th 1756.
NEW HAMPSHIRE }

NOTICE is hereby given, That
Ezekiel Browne of Epping in said Province, Administra-
tor to the Estate of Jonathan Faran late of Exeter in said
province deceased, has by his Petition, and Act of Real Estate
in Epping aforesaid, has petitioned the General Assembly, set-
ting forth that there is no Deed executed for the Sale of said
Estate from one Benjamin Durgan to his Father,
of which, Dated 18th November 1743, &c. Praying that he
may be enabled by some Act or Resolve of said Court to
Durgan may execute and deliver to the said Intestate a good lawful
Deed thereof; and also praying that he may have Liberty to sell a
North Side of Lampreel River, or so much thereof as will pay all just Debts due from the deceased's Estate; and praying that he may have Liberty to sell a part or all the Real Estate to the Petitioner’s Knowledge, until such Time as they shall be paid off: And whereas it appears that there is not sufficient personal Estate wherewithal to pay off all just Debts due from said deceased's Estate; therefore Notice is hereby given unto all Persons concerned therein, That they appear before the General Assembly at their Session on Wednesday next after the first Tuesday in December next at Portsmouth then and there shew Cause (if any they have) why an Act should not pass accordingly.

THEODORE ATKINSON

N.B. At this General Assembly all other Persons having Petitions are requested to be heard on the 23d Day of November next.

Portsmouth, October 19, 1756.

Found in this River about the last 
of September, a small Masto about 14 Feet and a half in Length. Whoever owns it (said Boat apply’d to be left with Mr. William Pearse in Portsmouth,) he may have New- bor.

Taken up last Week in Salisbury,
a Park with two Horns it is: The Owner is desired forthwith 
by enquiring of the Printer; describing them when taken up,
to claim them if otherwise disposed.

To be sold by the Printer hereof,
the following Books, viz.
Royal Dictionary French & English

Watts's *4 Sermons World to come Foundation o'
Christian Church Orthodoxy and Charity united Evan-
gelical Discourses Lyrick Poems his Sett of Catechisms 
and his Psalms Douglas's Summary Historical ac-
Political of America in 2 Vol. Collection o' Memoirs re-
able of the Ten Virgins History o' Martyrs American Magazines Vol. Historical Memoirs Existence o' God Gospel Sonnets True Religion true Religion Locke's Religion True Religion divine asked Justification etc House State o' Religion Life o' Jenney Cameron Mystery 

of Gospel Bunyan's Pilgrim Progress first second Part with his Life Tennents Discourses No Cross No Crown by William Penn Collection Histories Vol Compact Tradesman Vol A Gentleman's Religion Hale's Contemplations Vol Hervey Meditations Double Marriage Knowledge Christian Religion Family Instructor etc Ruling Scripture Shepherds Desk Cases resolv'd Campbell Conversion The Real Christians Heaven Vengeance etc Nevill Travels Crawfords Works Gentlemans Companion Clarisi Harrow Way Vocal Atheism Philosophical Discoveries Whimsical Works Fables Æsop eminent Mythologist Gay Fables French Hermit Gardiner Kalender Remarks History England Minute Philosopher Muses Library series English Letters View Human Nature Examination Bishop Burnet History Duncan Campbell Cheyne Health Watchtowers Voyage London Locomotion Anacreon Florio Whole Book Navigation Kettlebys Receipt Disserta- tions Parthen Hutchinson Compendium Cicero Brutus Curiosities Spain Portugal Lives Saints Miscellanies Dictionary Selling Quality New Roman History Miscellaneous Dictionary Moral Philosophy Letters Excursion Living Devout Exercises Heath Exhortations Latin Bible Second Sermons Form Common Prayer Testament Architecture Mariner Compass Mariner Kalender Art Navigation Arithmetic Prime Madagascars Thoughts Pafcal Thoughts on Religion Mari Bookkeeping Life Arbuthnot General Shop Book

These are Notify Creditors

Estate Mr Timothy Jotham late Greenland deceas'd represented Insolvent being Sabberday Honourable Richard Wibird Esq Judge Probate Province New Hampshire propose attending Service Clock Afternoon ensuing Month four Clock Afternoon House Enoch Clark Innkeeper Greenland

Greenland October 23 1756

Enoch Clark Nathaniel Marston

PORTSMOUTH IN NEW-HAMPSHIRE

Printed Daniel Fowle where Paper had One Dollar per Annum Equivalent Bills Credit computing Dollar Year Four Pounds Old Tenor

```plaintext
Reprinted by Peter N. Foulkes, Oct 7, 1856

Thursday, October 7. 1756. THE
New Hampshire GAZETTE,
With the Freshest Advices Foreign and Domestick.

The Printer to the PUBLIC.

UPON the Encouragement given by a Number of Subscribers agreeable to printed
Proposals, I now publish the first WEEKLY GAZETTE, for the Province of New-
Hampshire; depending upon the Favour of all Gentlemen who are Friends to
Learning, Religion and Liberty to countenance my Undertaking, as this is the be-
ginning of Printing in this Province, so that I may go on cheerfully, and continue this Paper
in a useful and entertaining Manner.

Fondness of News may be carried to an extreme; but every Lover of Mankind must feel
a strong Desire to know what passes in the World, as well as within his own private Sphere;
and particularly to be acquainted with the Affairs of his own Nation and Country—Especially
at such a Time as this, when the British Nation is engaged in a just and necessary War with
a powerful Enemy, the French, a War in which these American Colonies are most nearly
interested, the Event of which must be of the utmost Importance both to us and all the British
Dominions, every true Englishman must be anxious to know from Time to Time the State
of our Affairs, at Home and in the Colonies.

I shall therefore take Pains to furnish my Readers with the most material News which
can be collected from every Part of the World, particularly from Great-Britain, and its De-
pendencies: And great Care will be taken that no Facts of Importance shall be published
but such as are well attested, and these shall be as particular as may be necessary.

But besides the common News, whenever there shall be Room, and as there may be Oc-
casion, this Paper will contain Extracts from the best Authors on Points of the most useful
Knowledge, moral, religious or political Essays, and other such Speculations as may have a
Tendency to improve the Mind, afford any Help to Trade, Manufactures, Husbandry, and
other useful Arts, and promote the public Welfare in any Respect.

As the Press always claims Liberty in free Countries, it is presumed that none will be of-
fended if this Paper discovers that Spirit of Freedom which so remarkably prevails in the
English Nation: But as Liberty ought not to be abused, no Encouragement will be given by
the Publisher to any Thing which is apparently design'd to foment Divisions in Church or
State, nor to any Thing profane, obscene, or tending to encourage Immorality, nor to such
Writings as are produced by private Pique, and fill'd with personal Reflections and insolent
scurrilous Language. It is a great Abuse of good Sense as well as good Manners to employ
those Means which may be serviceable to the best Purposes, in the service of Vice or any
wicked Intention, or which may give just Occasion of Offence to any persons of true Taste and
Judgment. And therefore proper Caution will be always us'd to avoid all reasonable Grounds
of Complaint on that Score.
```

The Publisher will esteem it a great Favour to be well supplied by Correspondents of Genius and generous Sentiments with such Speculations or Essays as may be pleasing and instructive to the Public, agreeable to the Design of this Paper, and acknowledge himself obliged to any Gentleman who will take the Pains to communicate to him any good Intelligence, provided they be sent free from Charge.

The following Articles are the most material by yesterday's Mail.

ANTIGUA, August 28.
On Thursday last arrived here his Majesty's Ships the Edinburgh, of 74 Guns, Capt. Langdon, on board of which it is said Admiral Frankland will hoist his Flag, and the Augusta, of 60, Capt. Walsingham, with Merchantmen under Convoy: In the Augusta, came together with his Lady and Sister, James Ross, Esq; Col. of his Majesty's 38th Regiment of Foot.
The Day after her Passage spoke with a Vessel from Gibraltar, the Master of which said that Sir David Hawke arrived at Gibraltar the 3d of June, and sailed from thence the next Day for Minorca.
Aug. 31. Yesterday arrived here the Snow Sally, Capt. Barton, in 27 Days from Gibraltar, from whom we received the following Articles of Intelligence — The Day after the Engagement between the two Fleets the French Fleet appeared off Minorca, when a Report prevailed that they was landed, and Gibraltar being in want of Provisions, it was not in the Power of the English to send any Relief there, and the Enemy did not doubt having it in a few Days, for since the raising of the Flag of Truce, and granting an Answer by Cannon Ball and Bomb Shells; the Execution that Day was upwards of 1000 Men killed on the French Side, and 1500 on ours, and the Garrison was put upon a Breast put in Execution a bold Attempt, wherein was engaged by our General, and the Enemy by a certain Admiral, which being a Consequence of the Treaty of Peace, and the principal one of the Opportunity to send Troops, General Blakeney took that Opportunity to carry a Flag of Truce, and a Proposal of Capitulation to the French, which was refused, and the Flag of Truce being shot at, June 1. During our Forces stay they did the French a terrible Mischief, and they did the English as good, and at the Honour of War, and were sent to Gibraltar at the French King's Expence.
The Duke of Richelieu told General Blakeney, that if Byng had landed 4000 Men he could not have taken the Island, and that he hoped he would not come again, for the French were prepared. We lost 19 Officers and Men by the French Cannon.
The French Hand and Saunders being sent to the Command, Byng and West were ordered home, as are the Generals Fowke and Stuart. Hawke and Grantham are ordered to bring 5 Sail of Men of War to Gibraltar, in order to reinforce the Garrison of St. Philips, not knowing what Success attends our Forces. This Morning arrived here in 3 Days, the Capt. Barton, who took the Garrison aboard, and brought them to Barbadoes, for Intelligence several Men of War with Soldiers on board, for the reinforcement; and General Blakeney doubts not but a few Months will reinstate him in St. Philips.

The French first landed with 15000, some Accounts say 17000, and were reinforced with 4000; whereas we had but 3000 at first, and no Reinforcement.
HALLIFAX, September 1.
On Saturday last arrived here a French Prize Schooner sent in by the Fleet taken and plundered, her Cargo consists of Ship Timber, some Bread and Fish, &c. She is to be fitted out as a Privateer, to carry 10 Carriage and 50 Swivel Guns, and is manned out of the Fleet, and employed by his Majesty's Ship.
Sept. 8. Last Sunday arrived the Privateer Shallop commanded by Capt. Fogg, who took her about 4 Fortnight before, having taken six Prizes, all small French Schooners, one of which she brought in with her, another has since arrived, and the rest are expected.
The same Day an English fishing Schooner arrived here, which had been retaken from a French Privateer, by Capt. Smith, near Cape Breton; she was taken about a Fortnight before, and the French had plundered her, and put 5 of their Hands, and then stood away after the French Privateer.
Thursday arrived from this Harbour, Capt. Fogg, in the Schooner which they took to be a French Privateer, and was afterwards retaken with a French Prize.
The same Day an English Schooner, taken by the Fogueaux, her Cargo consists of Furs, Fish, &c.
Yesterday Morning arrived the Privateer's Sloop, James, of this Port, Capt. Fogg, who took her about 12 Cruizers near Cape Breton, where she had been taken by the Enemy with a Prize Snow, a Vessel of Force, taken by the French, and retaken by us. She brought in 2 French Prizes, one of which she had retaken, the other was taken by Capt. Fogg, both which are hourly expected in here. This Day a Sloop, which is supposed to be a Schooner from Boston or Cape Breton, bound for this Place, was chased in here by a French Privateer, who came up the Jamaica, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run over the Chase, she in a Sloop, forced her to run

attempt surprising those Indians at that Time, left if one
should escape the Town might be alarmed : so Lieut. Hinge
with twelve Men, was left to watch them, with Orders not to
fall upon them till Day break ; and our Forces turned out of
the Path, and passed by without disturbing them. About
three in the Morning, having been guided in the Woods through
the Indian Warriors at a Dance in the Town, they reached 
the River, 200 Perches below the Body of the Town, near 
a Corn Field, into which a Number of the English lodged ; it 
was a raw Night. As soon as Day appeared, and a Town 
was in seen, the Attack began on the Cornfield, through 
which our People charged, killing several of the Enemy; among 
whom was their Capt. Jacob; but this Fire had alarmed 
the War Whoop and defended themselves bravely for two Hours,
losses in the Logs. And tho Indians generally refusing Quar-
ters when offered them by our People (for they knew they would not be prisoners), Col. Armstrong received a Shot or Wound in his Shoulder ordered their Houses to be set on Fire,
they were accordingly done which brought them out of their Holes,
some however burnt out of their Houses and attempted to reach the River but were shot down; Capt. Jacobs in getting out of a Window was shot dead.—Capt. Jacobs his squaw,
and a lad called his King’s Son.—This is indeed a Num-
ber of spare Arms in their Houses loaded which went off as
the Fire came on them; and Quantities of Gun powder throwing some of their bodies a great Height into Air.
A body of Enemy being on opposite side River fired at us;
and our People having cross’d River at Distance,
as to surround our Men they collected some Indian Horses returned near Fort took away Cattle could find.
After we were thus become Masters Cornfield & Action.
Several Enemy killed River as attempting escape;
others drove opposite side where destroyed by Party sent over Scalps—Eleven English Prisoners rescued from most barbarous Usage: One Man who had been taken Powder great many Indians loaded with great Quantity Years War with English there was about 7 Guns Goods burnt which French made present but two Days before Prisoners also informed that lately two Battalions French Army Party Delawares French Indians come join Capt Jacob’s Rescued Prisoners inform’d that Captain Armstrong had taken him kindled Fire Wigwam he said he would burn him alive unless Hog died first then he should go free accordingly ordered three or four at Fire according Order bound him arms feet threw Hog fire roasted before him turned round spit until done then eat before him.

On whole allowed greatest Blow En[emy] have received since War began follow-

ed may soon make weary continuing it The Con-
duct Col Armstrong bringing large Body Foe’s Country without being discovered admired applauded as well Bravery both Officers Men Actions And hope Example may all good Effects naturally expected

In whole we had 17 killed 13 wounded 19 missing Since receiving above Return Fort Littleton since arrived Capt Mercer 23 Persons returned safe which makes up Number Missing four released Prisons

Capt Drew arrived Maryland from Barbados advises chased Sail Men War six Hours whether French English could not tell but coasting then stood Northward

N E W - Y O R K September 21

Captain White came up Wednesday Evening Ship Prince Charlesman Mons Desaguliers sailed August Privateer Brig Prince George Capt Ashfield Commander sailed Saturday Evening last Captain Ashfield arrived here Sloop Alexander Hope late Master from Africa about Santa Cruz Days acquaintance St Thomas Months ago Leagues Coast Crew upon Deck watched Opportunity when asleep some Crew were Hold rushed knocked Capt Hope Brain wounded Charles Duncan second Mate several Places secured all Arms kept Possession Craft seven Days carried Assistance Mr Ashfield Cooper Boat struck Upon Underguard Council Board examined Abused themselves further Mischief prevented Mr Ashfield Cooper rushed Cabin seized Slave Master Vessel Coward Mr Ashfield several Wounds Head Hand obliged keep Bed Weeks Passengers City same Day Captain James White Ship Prince-Charles here Portsmouth Ireland Provisions Majesty's Forces Province Tuesday Morning Capt Fell Privateer Sloop Mary commanded Joseph Price arrived Port last Friday Morning spoke Aug Lat Long Spoke Privateer Sloop William Bickerstaffe Master Prize Antigua Three Days before spoke Capt Gordon homeward bound London fell Company Fleet hindered motion man brought off took Prize Negroes Gold Dust Gums other Cargo French Men War Guns other Convoy Africa Prize Guinea Coast Chace Sept Early Morning Capt Fell same Fleet The French Commodore immediately gave

Chase, fired several Shot at him, and with Difficulty he
escaped being taken. Sept. 5. Captain Peill fell in with five
Sail of French Merchantmen, who all being English Co-
lours: He immediately engaged two of them with a Pola-
cre Ship, one a Ship of 12 Guns and 80 Men, the other a Snow
of 10 Guns and 35 Men: The Ship endeavoured to run on
Capt. Peill down, but he prevented her; she then gave him
a Broadside, as made her glad to sheer off: He then ran
along Side of the Snow, and gave her another Broadside,
when she struck her Colours; but the Privateer having run
away, he hoisted her Colours again, and joined the other two,
of the Fleet. The same Afternoon Capt. Peill fell on another
Ship of 14 Guns and 48 Men, after exchanging some Broadsides,
the Frenchman was obliged to retreat off this Ship coming down upon him, was obliged to quit her.

The American Postscript has this further Opportunity.
New York, Octob. 7. Thursday last a Man who was proved 
to be a Spy was brought here from Albany where he was 
secured by Order of the Earl of London, and is committed 
to Town-Goal.

The same Morning Capt. Jauncey arrived here in a Sloop 
from Jamaica: He was ten Days in the Windward Passage,
without seeing a Vessel or any Nation whatever. There are 
now on the Jamaica Station; 3 Ships of 60 Guns; 1 of 50;
1 of 40; and 3 of 20 Guns; and others from [?]0 & so Guns 
each daily expected there.

Extracts from Letters George's Sept. [illegible]0[?],1756

"Yesterday one of our Scouts consisting [illegible]5[?] Men com-
manded by Capt Hodges were ambushed and fired upon by a larger Party Indians about [illegible] Miles above us they went over half killed one Man though they fought bravely for some Time but superior Numbers had Advantage Ground they did almost surrounded our Party we forced way through pursued Enemy till Night when we retreated only Party ever returned alive Immediately sent out fresh Troops under Command Lieut Relying on Blows returned Bones Captain engaged shot through Head all Officers killed wounded Enemy Hands Day Out Camp killing Swamp small Distance Fort Number Indians unknown though many large Party without doubt War Indian not known whether any escaped."

BOSTON October [illegible]

Besides Articles mentioned last Post following Extract Letter dated Canada September "This Day Snow Sloop from Granada laden Fish sailed Two Brigs bound Europe same Place Master says Brig Governor came Place latter Part August brought News that English Fleet under Warren arrived Canada while lying heard that no Man hurt lost Man Reduction Place That said Vessels been chased Halifax large French Privateer Schooner upper Works Masts painted Spanish Brown that largest Shop War gone out taken Prize supposed Capt Rowe had taken French Privateer Brigantine Guns Men."

We have also received an uncertain Account Wakefield's Escape Fortress George York Garrison consisted Troops including Officers made Escape former Months three remaining after surrender Fort taken Prisoners except those carried away Enemy Accounts which Garrison consisted true very ill treated Prisoners confined Dungeons York think necessary insert Names Persons board which found Kelly Majesty's Ship Mermaid bound England

Tuesday last being Training-Day Castle William mixed Volley Shot fired Cannon Pieces broke Leg quartered instantly died Surgeon wound dangerous Husband Wife Child another much wounded Head Arm several received slight Wounds Hurt hoped recover all well."

PORTSMOUTH Sept By Express Arrived yesterday Albany have Advice French Army advanced Crown Point apprehensive took some Thoughts paying Visit understand Lordship Earl Loudon advised several Governors New England Reinforcements."

PORT OF PISCATAWAY

Entered Schooner Rex Richard Fay Chignecto Sloop Neptune Luke Mills Salisbury Samuel Atkinson Antigua Brigantine William Governors Rhode Island

Cleared Brigantine Thomas Dartmouth Bristol Schooner Turtle Benjamin Foster West-Indies Sloop Friend John Tibbets Piscataqua Schooner Charming Molly Henry Carter Rhode Island Schooner Charlotte Thomas Portsmouth Brigantine Dolphin John Smith Antigua Sloop Sally Daniel Fowle Boston Brig Dolphin Joseph Loring Liverpool

To be sold by Printer hereof Variety Bound Books Pamphlets among which are following Douglass Summary Historical Political America Vol American Magazine Just Published Mystery Iniquity Unfolded Guide Heaven Watts Psalms Hymns Lyric Poems &c"

PORTSMOUTH NEW-HAMPSHIRE Printed Daniel Fowle Paper may had One Dollar Annum Equivalent Bills Credit computing Dollar Year Four Pounds Old Tenor