```plaintext
FOREIGN AFFAIRS by Yesterday's Mails.

By the General Wall Packet, Capt. Ludwick, who arriv'd 
at New-York, in 42 days & Weeks from Falmouth, we have 
collected the following Advices.

PARIS, July 5.
We are assured from Rochfort, Brest and other Ports,
that notwithstanding the Vigilance of the English Fleet;
our Coasts, upwards of 10,000 Troops have been transport-
ed to Canada since the Beginning of March, the great-
Part of which safely arrived at Quebec, and are properly
disposed; in addition to these a Charge was made on our
Indian Allies against the English, and to prosecute those
Successes we have the Satisfaction to hear they have reached.

Furney, July 5. The following additional Forces and
Camps which are to be formed about the 15th Instant. A
Camp near Bourbough near Dunkirk consisting of 18 Battali-
ons; 8 Squadrons; one at St. Vallery consisting of 3 Battalions,
and 2 Squadrons: In all: By Battalions at large; 3 Squadrons,
besides the Body of Artillery and Labourers.

Dresden, July 6. According to Letters from Vienna, tho'
the Duke de Crillon is coming to consist of above 50,000
Men, and will be ready for Action by the End of this Month,
and that in Moravia of 40,000 men under the Command of
Prince Piccolomini d'Aragon.

L O N D O N , July 13.
Last Sunday a great Personage had his Kinsgton declared,
that he had received Advice that a large Body of Hanoverian &
French Troops embarking with a Design to invade us.

It is certain that Admiral Hawke has Orders not to stay one
Day longer in his Station., which his favour Latter assumes 
to have been sent for five Days after its Cannonading;
the great Supply-of heavy Artillery; without which the 
Enemy could make no Impression upon Fort St. Phillip,
would inevitably have fallen into his Hands.

Commodore Howe of the Dunkirk fleet Advice of his 
having taken a small French Island or two on their Passage,
and made two Soldiers in the Fort Prisoners.

Aug.14. We hear that Admiral Byng is confined in an 
Apartment adjoining to Greenwich Hospital Door guarded by 
a Jewry Stair high with two Guards at the Door,and 
all Persons going into him were relieved every 24 Hours.
According to some private Letters by Financial Mail,
the King of Prussia has actually enter'd Bohemia with an 
Army of above 50,000 Men.

PHILADELPHIA October [?].
In a Letter from Winchester,in Virginia dated [illegible]
20th ult.there advice that an Express arrived there [illegible]
the Night before from Agusta County with an Account [illegible]
that Indians had killed & taken Prisoners above-50 [illegible]
in several Places this Day Time ; that they defeated a [illegible]
considerable Bodyof them as they had defeated Party[?] [illegible]
if so you inform me they lay then at Fort Advantage in- [illegible]
Ground : And that by came Express they were ad- [illegible]
vised that Major Lewis was on his March for Winchester[?] [illegible]
with400 Cherokees,and that he had left Mr.Fairfax[?]to[?] [illegible]
bring300 more after him : It is further said in this same letter,[?] [illegible]
That about three o'clock Col.Armstrong who had gone to[?]Fort Cumberland after a Marchingof9Days ;and tho'he met[?][illegible]

In another Letter from Winchester dated Sept.28,we

have'the following Particulars,viz.By a Letter from Lieut.Bullitt.of.the Virginia Regiment.who commanded Fort Dinwiddie,on Jackson's River,in Augusta Coun-ty.in Virginia,we.have.the.following.disagreeable.News:
since Saturday last there have been killed.and captivated on this River40-Persons.by.the Indians.who.are.now committing Outrages even beyond killing,the Horses and Cattle,and burning.the Houses.of.the poor.People:
most.of.whom.have.not.yet.been moved.as.they.are too much terrified.to.stir.and.have.defended.a small Party.of.Volunteers.who went.in Pursuit.of.them.One Woman whose Name.was known.by.several People.to.be.a Delaware,.who.came.out.from.amongst.them.to.ask.for Mercy,.was shot.at.a Place called Fort.killed Washington cast out To morrow.for.this Fort.
Extract.of.a.Letter.from.Capt.Waggoner,.of.the.Virginia Regiment.dated.on.the.South Branch.of.Potowmack:

Last Week.an.Erfign.with.six.Men.from Sibly's Mill.with12.Men.he.was.pursued.by.a.Party.for-the Distance.of.near.five Miles.when.fired.at.one Man was killed.and.two wounded.The Enemy took away all their Provisions (scalping Knives,&c.) among other Outrages committed.on.this Occasion,two Women were found near.the.Place,a.Day.or two.after,their Bodies being destroyed.by.the Wolves.[possible OCR repetition artifact]

Our Affairs here go on very well,having granted £8000 raising500 Men,and.transporting them.to.New York.for Royal American Regiments.in our Service ;and an Act shall raise£1:5000.to.cloth.and maintain six Cherokee.and Catawba Indians.in our Service ;and Saturday last His Honour Governor.James Hamilton,and Benjamin Franklin Esqrs.set out.to.meet them,to bring over England.with them,in order.to inspect.the Forests.[possible OCR repetition artifact]

More Letters.from Cumberland County.advice House and Mill.of.George Brown.in.Consequence were burnt.by.the Indians.on.the30th.last Month ;the former set up before France,and London&Woodfield.[possible OCR repetition artifact]

We hear that Col.Armstrong.and.his Officers.have ordered for Albany.Men.by.order.from Mr Secretary-in-from Kittanning.likewise for released Prisoners brought back again,to see.private Men as needful for their good Behaviour.in late Expedition,and encourage them.go out against their Enemies.Gentlemen do not regard any Enemy from.mercenary Motive.but Regard for Service.King should League Country.[possible OCR repetition artifact]

NEW-YORK.October11.
About10 Leagues off Cape Clear,in late Day-of-August,Capt.Ludwick was attacked by French Privateer Brig (name) took up him Camp French Captain having lost Mouth Monseigneur with Reported Exchange having met some pretty warm Reception.In fact,some private Passengers.Col.Douglas.Edmond Atkin Esq;.of S.Carolina Capt.Graham Royal Americans.Tuesday

```