Tuesday left the Captains Abercrombie and Lewis ar-
rived here from Hamburg, but last from Stromness in
Scotland, in 8 Weeks, with about 300 Men for the Royal
American Regiment: They inform us, that Capt. Anderson
sailed from the same Place a few Days before them with
Recruits for the Royal American Regiment also.

Thursday last Capt. Grigg, in the Privateer Brig Johnson
of this Port, sent in a small French Schooner, which he took
in Latt. 35. on this or tht ult. bound from Martinico to
Cape Breton: Her Cargo consists of Rum, Sugar and 
Coffee.

Lord Loudon left Albany early on Tuesday Morning 
last, to proceed to Fort William Henry, the Forces having 
marched some Time before: and Sir William Johnson,
we hear, with a Body of Indians is crossing the Country 
to meet him.

HALIFAX, September 25.
Last Sunday Evening arrived here the French Prize Snow 
taken by the Fogeaux, and put under Protection at Jamaica 
in a Fog a few Days before she was taken.

The same Day Captain Mc Nemara, in the Wasp Pri-
vateer belonging to this Place, arrived here after his Cruize,
with him is a French Prize Schooner, of about 120 Tons,
laden with Stock Yettlements; her Burthen is 3 Leagues for
the Back of Louisbourg and other French Settlements:
her Cargo consisting of unwatered Provisions and Oil 16,000 
Livers.

Thursday two Men arrived here with Expresses from 
Capt. Mercer at Fort Beausejour: Excellency the Governor,
informing him that one of their Scouts had been attacked at
some Distance from our Forts with a Guard of a Serjeant
and 12 Men; four were killed upon the Spot; three were be-
lieved as a small Distance from them; upon which the Ser-
jeant had his Party pursued them till they came to a Hallow,
when they were immediately surrounded by about 100 of
the French who took the Serjeant and six of his Men Pri-
soners then set off by firing and retreating in the best 
Manner they could got back to the Fort only one wounded.

Octob. 2. Sunday last arriv'd his Majesty's Ships Nor-
wich and Success from their Cruize; an Officer from the 
Success gives us following Account viz., That on Wednesday
of Sept. being in Gutt of Canso they spy'd small 
Schooner standing along in shore upon which they manned out their Boats went in quest her boarded her re-
ceiving run her ashore quitted ran into Woods when Capt Rous's Barge put Two Hands into take charge upon which French Indians em Number rowed out Bushes fired upon them killed Lieut Jacobs Success Coxen three others repeating Fire kill'd other five wounded rest perceiving took Water landed Norwich's Boat held there till large Body came down Side other being both wounded one Side other large Piece Shot through Middle largest Wound one Officers since died Barge loss Fifteen Enemy The next Day fair Wind weighed stood away Newfoundland arrived Island day after took small French Privateer Schooner close shore standing away Island but Wind blowing so hard follow her after Wind abated sent Boats ashore landed Lieut Privateer whom Harry left behind head collected together belonging Cape Cleves Owne said Island kill'd Man carried Board Prisoners sent said Place where arrived above

The same Day Prize Schooner arriv'd She was taken Fogeaux Centurion cruising Bay Gaspe bound Island St John's Quebec value 100 Men Women Children board

Wednesday last Fogeaux arriv'd We hear when she Centurion were cruizing Bay Gaspe taking favourable Opportunity landed some Men Cover off destroyed New French Settlement burnt Houses Inha- bitants having deferred then join Indians fled Woods

BOSTON October 18.
Capt Clouston arriv’d here last Monday in Weeks Days sloop John Oporto informs came out Fleet homeward bound met Evening before saw Passage Month White Admiral Boscawen’s Fleet who informed him several Ships War Transports near Coast men war seen between Cape Finistere those Times believed Oporto there were Vessels those Parts bound Coast Galicia between Cape Orugal Cape Finistere had Intelligence where came found likely belong whose Vessels making towards Shore

Yesterday arrived here Weeks Days Cagliari Capt Thomas Oliver informs Great Briar laden sail French Transport Vessels near Harbour

The Courier which arrived here Yesterday informs Lord Loudon Regulus arrival Fort William Henry

Yesterday arrived here Capt Howard five Days Halifax Capt Rous sailed same Day him bound Portsmouth New Hampshire order convoy Fleet ships Home Fleet still Halifax

Last Saturday Night Philip Boffett Henry Clode two Freemen taken sloop Cock Robin belonging Portsmouth brought Place lodged publick Service apprehend it used there 

Extract Letter London dated August Extract Lockhart Tartar Man War Guns taken Lat Land End March new French Privateers Guns Men brought St Maloes Bay day taken others General Fowke late Deputy Governor Gibraltar tried Court Martial disobeying Orders suspended Year Majesty ordered struck List dismissed Service ever