Thursday, October 21.  
1756.  
New Hampshire  
With the Freshest Advices  

THE  
Num. 3.  
GAZETTE,  
Foreign and Domeſtick.

To the PUBLISHER of the NEW HAMPSHIRE GAZETTE.

As many Perſons are, at this Seaſon employ’d in making and ſtoring of CYDER, and as introducing that Liquor rightly into our Families, and to its uſefulneſs by Circulation in our foreign Productions, it may not be amiſs to give the following Extracts from a late Paper, containing an Account of a new Method of making Cyder; with a Repreſentation of above Twenty Years Experience of the Benefit of this Method.

To make Good CYDER

TO manifacture the juices it is neceſſary to col- lect the apples into heaps, in an open ven- tilated part of an orchard; defended from the Rain and dews, which instead of doing harm, will dilute the juices and promote their fermentation; tho’ when intended to have drop’d from the tree, are to be gathered up and laid in a heap by themfelves, and may be made ufe of after having lain about 10 days. Apples which have acquired fome degree of maturity, and are gathered from the trees are to be laid in a heap by themfelves for a fortnight. The later hard fruits, which are to be left on the trees till approach of froft is apprehended, will require but 8 or 10 days: A month or six weeks after they will receive such a maturation as they could not have attained on the trees. The riper and mellow fruits are fit at once for use; those that have been bruised either by their continuance thereon or had farther immatured and harder they come together into one heap: In some countries methods to inake these heaps of apples in due order for manufacture are observed on every side ; however occasions arise too f oilsages , general rottenedss , rancid smell ,and disagreeable taste .

The juices thus prepared ought none fo ever to be compared to green wine ,or cyder yet fit with two fevers . The Alembic is employed that its needs no explanation . Mechanism also assists with precision as combustion .

As it’s well fixed within ground ,from whence it has elevated & laid out,and put into sack with its neck tied up ; being set on board frame where juice may be strain’d &the grosfer part pulp inter- cepted .

From this vessel it is to be transfer’d into large open cask which will contain whole pounding or makings cyder ,or as much can pressed one day . When cyder has remain'd this vat day ,or sometimes less according ripeness fruit added twice week grosfer parts pulp rise top,and after two more grow very thick white bubbles size cup finger break surface then perfectly branched off clear liquor drawn until inch lower than first mark set four inches small then less may appear .

Appearance thick white bubbles head which is sign drawing off quick fill take bottom consequence making sweet cyder well bottle .

On drawing cyder fresh must nunn'd longer shorter time casks lees mixed cold casks well cleaned upon letting remain longer shorter time three casks lees mind own particular taste inclined .

To have cyder perfectly sweet carefully watch if turned sour rack'd off again another clean well scented cask without stirring sediment called hilling great sweetness over delicate cyders only bear one two rackings But make table wines best done once twice fermentation ceased rack'd off repeated till fermentation ceases manner makes good keeping vessels float bubbles disregarded liquor not drawn off before settled After being once more carefully bunged half fill'd bung once month must neglected time grow flat heavy vent should sometimes fail hole should covered tile stone after should closely bound [illegible]

London July 27 : There were not above 2000 Seamen all Gallioneer’s Fleet whence our Superiority was greater than what appears form Majority 52 Guns : The French were likewise very sickly .

* Note Grinding apples too small produces austerity end bitterness * 

* It may observed that all this racking before open air prevents acidity among us,and has very material difference yield *

FOREIGN