```plaintext
Reprinted by Peter N. Foulkes, Oct 7, 1856

Thursday, October 7. 1756. THE
New Hampshire GAZETTE,
With the Freshest Advices Foreign and Domestick.

The Printer to the PUBLIC.

UPON the Encouragement given by a Number of Subscribers agreeable to printed
Proposals, I now publish the first WEEKLY GAZETTE, for the Province of New-
Hampshire; depending upon the Favour of all Gentlemen who are Friends to
Learning, Religion and Liberty to countenance my Undertaking, as this is the be-
ginning of Printing in this Province, so that I may go on cheerfully, and continue this Paper
in a useful and entertaining Manner.

Fondness of News may be carried to an extreme; but every Lover of Mankind must feel
a strong Desire to know what passes in the World, as well as within his own private Sphere;
and particularly to be acquainted with the Affairs of his own Nation and Country—Especially
at such a Time as this, when the British Nation is engaged in a just and necessary War with
a powerful Enemy, the French, a War in which these American Colonies are most nearly
interested, the Event of which must be of the utmost Importance both to us and all the British
Dominions, every true Englishman must be anxious to know from Time to Time the State
of our Affairs, at Home and in the Colonies.

I shall therefore take Pains to furnish my Readers with the most material News which
can be collected from every Part of the World, particularly from Great-Britain, and its De-
pendencies: And great Care will be taken that no Facts of Importance shall be published
but such as are well attested, and these shall be as particular as may be necessary.

But besides the common News, whenever there shall be Room, and as there may be Oc-
casion, this Paper will contain Extracts from the best Authors on Points of the most useful
Knowledge, moral, religious or political Essays, and other such Speculations as may have a
Tendency to improve the Mind, afford any Help to Trade, Manufactures, Husbandry, and
other useful Arts, and promote the public Welfare in any Respect.

As the Press always claims Liberty in free Countries, it is presumed that none will be of-
fended if this Paper discovers that Spirit of Freedom which so remarkably prevails in the
English Nation: But as Liberty ought not to be abused, no Encouragement will be given by
the Publisher to any Thing which is apparently design'd to foment Divisions in Church or
State, nor to any Thing profane, obscene, or tending to encourage Immorality, nor to such
Writings as are produced by private Pique, and fill'd with personal Reflections and insolent
scurrilous Language. It is a great Abuse of good Sense as well as good Manners to employ
those Means which may be serviceable to the best Purposes, in the service of Vice or any
wicked Intention, or which may give just Occasion of Offence to any persons of true Taste and
Judgment. And therefore proper Caution will be always us'd to avoid all reasonable Grounds
of Complaint on that Score.
```